test/e2e_tests/README.md, before:

## Please refer to [Playwright doc](https://playwright.dev/docs/intro) for detailed overview of the framework, troubleshooting, and best practices.

# Requirements beyond the base project

Have 1Password's cli installed (op)

Before running tests create the env file by

```
op inject -i test/e2e_tests/.env.staging.tpl -o test/e2e_tests/.env
```

It will generate .env file with variables from 1Password

# Tests

E2E tests can be found inside [test folder](/test/e2e_tests/). The folder contains [page objects](/test/e2e_tests/pages), [backend classes](/test/e2e_tests/backend), and [credentialsReader.ts](/test//e2e_tests/utils/credentialsReader.ts) for access 1Password credentials.

[Playwright config can be found in the root folder of the repo](/playwright.config.ts)

## Running the tests

E2E tests can be run via

1. Executing `yarn e2e-test` in the root folder of the repo. Running it with `--ui` flag will open Playwright app that can be handy for debugging. Providing `--grep "@{TAG_NAME}"` will result in running only tests with @{TAG_NAME}. For example:

```
yarn e2e-test --grep "@regression"
```

2. via VSCode extension in IDE.

Commit message:

docs: document usage of testservice for running tests locally without VPN

test/e2e_tests/README.md, after:

## Please refer to [Playwright doc](https://playwright.dev/docs/intro) for detailed overview of the framework, troubleshooting, and best practices.

## Requirements beyond the base project

Have 1Password's cli installed (op)

Before running tests create the env file by

```
op inject -i test/e2e_tests/.env.staging.tpl -o test/e2e_tests/.env
```

It will generate .env file with variables from 1Password

### Running the Testservice

Some of the E2E tests require a connection to a running [Testservice](https://github.com/wireapp/kalium/tree/develop/tools/testservice). The default address stored in 1Password is for an instance running on prem. If you're within the Wire VPN you can just use it.

If you're not in the Wire VPN you can run it locally as a docker container:

1. Start it by running `docker run -d --platform linux/amd64 -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 quay.io/wire/testservice`
2. Update the env var `TEST_SERVICE_URL` in `test/e2e_tests/.env` to point to it: `TEST_SERVICE_URL=http://localhost:8080``

## Tests

E2E tests can be found inside [test folder](/test/e2e_tests/). The folder contains [page objects](/test/e2e_tests/pages), [backend classes](/test/e2e_tests/backend), and [credentialsReader.ts](/test//e2e_tests/utils/credentialsReader.ts) for access 1Password credentials.

[Playwright config can be found in the root folder of the repo](/playwright.config.ts)

### Running the tests

E2E tests can be run via

1. Executing `yarn e2e-test` in the root folder of the repo. Running it with `--ui` flag will open Playwright app that can be handy for debugging. Providing `--grep "@{TAG_NAME}"` will result in running only tests with @{TAG_NAME}. For example:

```
yarn e2e-test --grep "@regression"
```

2. via VSCode extension in IDE.
